over the last 12 months i've driven
58.6 million visitors from google you
would look at my traffic sets you look
at this graph and you're like wow neil
you must be doing really well at seo and
you know what you're doing but you know
what that's not really the case hey
everyone i'm neil patel and today i'm
gonna break down my biggest seo mistake
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel if you're on
youtube click the alert notification
as you can see here
58.6 million visitors from seo that's a
lot of traffic to not have to pay for
and if i scroll down and i look at the
traffic stats coming from terms like
uber says which is fine my name uber
says affiliate marketing my name
variations uber says but then when you
start getting down you start seeing
terms like you know how to make money
from the internet that's in portuguese
uh how to get followers from instagram
more instagram keywords
um
you know and then free instagram
followers
this just uber says in japanese
instagram
uh marking digital is digital marketing
in brazil but if i just keep going
further down the list you'll start
seeing a lot of keywords that
aren't really
relevant to my business like how to
increase instagram followers
because my business which i'll show you
here is the ad agency np digital and we
don't really help people with their
instagram followers what we really help
them with is things like seo and
pay-per-click and we want a lot of
awards like here's the best b2b
pay-per-click award or here's one for
the best b2b seo campaign and best seo
campaign we do both b2b and b2c here's
one for corporate responsibility you
know and the list keeps going on and on
but in essence we're a digital marketing
firm sure we'll do social media ads and
seo
but we're not here to just boost your
instagram followers we're here to drive
traffic and more importantly the traffic
needs to generate your roi in other
words you need to be generating more
money than what you're spending if you
spend a dollar ideally you need to be
making two or three or four dollars
right
and a lot of the key words what i was
optimizing for as you can see here was
just pure volume
and i was getting a lot of traffic but
as you can see now my traffic's starting
to drop why
because my team
you know at my ad agency we track leads
and i i can't show you our leads in
salesforce because we track it all uh
due to people's personal information
like their records or their company urls
uh there's nothing really too sensitive
or really any sensitive at all but we
don't wanna i i don't wanna share
people's urls and emails without their
permission i just would feel a little
sleazy and unethical with that one so i
don't want to do that but when we were
tracking our
sales through salesforce of what's
driving clients for np digital and
typically people click on let's talk and
submit a form or contact so we have two
options to become a lead
and what we found is most these keywords
drove little to no leads
now if you go to neilpatel.com i get my
traffic typically from blogging right
you can see here on the blog and if you
look at my content
i'm going after keywords that are very
specific customer customer reviews in
video ads so if i type in customer
reviews video ads the search volume
isn't high
if you look here
zero monthly searches right people
aren't really searching for a lot of
these keywords but you know what we
found that people who are interested in
putting customer reviews and video ads
or images and they're trying to figure
this out are interested in conversion
rate optimization which is one of the
services we offer again not a lot of
people look for it but it's a good
revenue channel for us
how to use youtube ads to grow your
business so another one is youtube ads
and people who are looking for youtube
ads
are people who are willing to spend
money only has 20 000 monthly search in
the united states
not a ton compared to some of the other
keywords like instagram followers i'll
actually show you here by typing in
instagram
followers
and keywords like instagram followers
will get way more searches
but they're not the right type of
audience so the content that we're
producing on our blog is much more niche
how to create a free google website for
a business this for us this post is
target local businesses because our smb
division helps localize businesses how
to create unique gift guides for
e-commerce content
again very specific because we have a
lot of e-commerce customers roughly 28
or 29 of our customers are e-commerce's
somewhere in that range
so my content is very specific around
what's going to get me customers and
even though being a seo at first i'm
like i want to get millions of visitors
the more traffic the better i quickly
learn technically not quickly i learned
over time sadly and it took a long time
to really learn and i spent so many
years building up my traffic and it
wasn't until i got the traffic and we
really started optimizing for what's not
just generating a lead for our ad agency
right this would be a lead of someone
clicking let's talk or contact filling
out but we started optimizing for
which leads are actually closing into
customers and where they first find us
and you don't end up knowing a lot of
this until you get a lot of that traffic
because you can have assumptions but you
don't really know until you start
getting the traffic
but you have assumptions and i would
always tell my team optimized for
traffic brand awareness but you know
what a lot of my competitors i prospect
yes you may have heard of them you may
have not they do probably 500 to 700
million a year they don't even get one
tenth of the traffic to their website
if i go into ubersis right now
app.neilpatel.com
and i type in i prospect into here
let's load up their site make sure i
spell it right
all right so if i load up i prospect
into uber's suggest
and again it's just another ad agency
website
yeah
there you go traffic overview
if you look here
it's just an ad agency they're a
competitor of mine
and when i look at this
monthly traffic estimated
now let me go back to traffic overview
sorry about that i
prospect.com
they're getting roughly 17 000 visitors
a month and if you wanna do apples to
apples let's go neilpatel.com let's look
what i got in the last
30 ish days 5.8 right so it's like
cool i don't make 500 or 700 million a
year i wish i did and look
17 000 visitors
5 million which would you take i'd
rather take 17 000 and generate all that
revenue look the big lesson from this is
don't optimize for traffic optimize for
revenue if your keywords aren't
generating you revenue move on to new
keywords and when you're doing keyword
research don't make the mistake i did
don't just optimize for quote unquote
traffic what i want you to do is type in
keywords like i'm typing in digital
marketing here
look for ideally good volume because the
more volume of course the better
but you want relevant volume that can
convert into a customer so when you look
at it even if the keyword has high
volume you'd be like all right do i
offer digital marketing services yes we
do so okay so then that traffic is
relevant is the cpc cost per click what
people would pay for ads hi 18 a click
is high that means the keyword can
actually probably drive revenue on the
flip side this keyword got sixty
thousand searches if i type in instagram
followers
this keyword here sixty thousand
searches similar
but only a dollar 98 cost per click what
does that tell you yes you can get tons
of traffic for this but
people are probably aren't going to
convert as high if someone's willing to
pay 18 for ad click versus a dollar 98
or 2 dollars
that's roughly nine times difference
right 18 versus two dollars that's 9x
difference
that means that this keyword probably
won't drive as many customers so don't
optimize just for traffic optimize for
traffic from the right audience and
before you go after keywords do your
keyword research type them into uber's
suggests figure out which keywords have
high volume and traffic uh volume
technically and travel the same thing
but also high cpc and of course it's
related to your business like i type in
digital marketing digital marketing
agency has a 24 cost per click less
volume but people are willing to pay
more i'm a digital marketing agency
someone could type in digital marketing
look for a degree or
certification and i don't offer
certifications
you know technically you can get a job
through my ad agency but we're really
more so agency that's looking for
customers so you want to look for high
cpcs and the more related the better
even if less volume so even though this
one
gets let's say 3x less search volume
right it's roughly 20 000 this one's 60
but this is digital marking agency which
is what i am so it's better for me to go
after a keyword that is what i am
because the cpc is higher right instead
of 18 is 24 and it's more related to my
business which means i'm going to
generate more customers from it so don't
just optimize for quote-unquote
keywords and traffic optimize for
relevancy and if you do that you're
gonna do better and if you need help
with this check out my agency np digital
or if you just have questions leave a
comment below i'm here to help for free
of course
and if you enjoy the video like it share
it but in essence that's my biggest seo
mistake and lesson that i ended up
learning don't make it it was a silly
one i wish i didn't optimize for brand
awareness and i knew a lot of those
keywords wouldn't convert but i'm like
oh yeah i want the brand awareness but
there's a lot of competitors like
iprospect another one that's massive is
performix let's see
performix.com i believe that's your url
performix.com
and if you look at performix another ad
agency
and these guys are massive i think they
have three thousand employees i don't
know the revenue but
they don't have that many keywords or
traffic three thousand seven hundred
visitors and most people haven't heard
of them but look they got three thousand
plus employees i don't have three
thousand employees they have three
thousand employees you know they're
making way more money than me i'm
probably somewhere between four hundred
and five hundred employees
and that just shows you five million
visitors or three thousand i'd rather
have more qualified traffic and more
revenue so yes brand awareness and
traffic is good as long as it brings in
revenue in the long run that's very very
important
and i hope that helps you out best of
luck with your strategies and again if
you need help with your marketing check
out my agency np digital if you enjoy
the video like it share it tell the
people about it thank you for your time